feat: add 'staged' upgrade flag with optional label/taint (#108)
postfinance/topf: docs/commands/upgrade.md

> `--delete-if-eviction-fails`. The flag only switches the eviction API to
> direct deletion for the fallback attempt, which is what lets it bypass
> PDBs.
>
> **Staging upgrades with `--stage`** *(Talos >= 1.13 only)*. Sometimes you
> want to install new Talos artifacts on nodes without immediately rebooting
> them — e.g. to spread reboots over a maintenance window or let an external
> controller (such as a drain scheduler) reboot nodes one at a time. `--stage`
> installs the upgrade artifacts but skips the drain, reboot, and uncordon
> steps. The node continues running on its current kernel until it is manually
> rebooted, at which point the staged upgrade takes effect.
>
> `--stage-label` and `--stage-taint` mark the Kubernetes node so controllers
> or humans can identify nodes with a pending reboot. For example,
> `--stage-taint topf.postfinance.ch/staged-upgrade=true:PreferNoSchedule`
> discourages new pods from scheduling on the node until it is rebooted and

> > the taint is removed. Both flags can be repeated and require `--stage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> the taint is removed. Both flags can be set multiple times to specify
> multiple labels/taints and can only be used with `--stage`.
```

> `--delete-if-eviction-fails`. The flag only switches the eviction API to
> direct deletion for the fallback attempt, which is what lets it bypass
> PDBs.
>

> > **Staging upgrades with `--stage`.** Sometimes you want to install new

Author: should be made clear that is only works >=v1.13

**Modern flow** *(Talos >= 1.13)*:

> 1. Resolve the Kubernetes node name (if `--drain` is enabled, or if `--stage` with labels/taints)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Resolve the Kubernetes node name (if `--drain` is enabled or for staged upgrades with `--stage-label` and/or `--stage-taint` and/or `--stage-annotation`)
```

2. Pre-pull the installer image via `ImageService.Pull`
3. Install the upgrade artifacts via `LifecycleService.Upgrade`
4. **If `--stage` is set**: apply labels/taints (if any) and stop here — the node is not rebooted
5. Cordon and drain the Kubernetes node if `--drain` is enabled. **If the drain fails** (e.g. a pod cannot be evicted within `--drain-timeout`), the upgrade aborts unless `--delete-if-eviction-fails` is set: in that case, the drain retries with pod deletion (DELETE instead of EVICT, bypassing PodDisruptionBudgets, reusing `--drain-timeout`). If the forced drain also fails, the node is left cordoned with the new artifacts installed but not rebooted, and no further nodes are upgraded. In-flight upgrades on other nodes (when `--max-parallel > 1`) are allowed to complete, but no new ones are started. The node must be uncordoned and rebooted manually to recover.
6. Issue a `Reboot` with the selected reboot mode (default: kexec)
7. Wait 30 seconds for the node to stabilize

> 8. Uncordon the Kubernetes node

Reviewer: It doesn't really matter, but for reference, markdown renderers typically [automatically set the numbers](https://www.markdownlang.com/basic/lists.html#numbering) in a list. So you can use `1.` for all items to avoid inflated diffs when adding elements to a markdown list.

```md
1. first element
1. second element
1. third element
```

renders as

1. first element
1. second element
1. third element

Author: good idea. that'd be much cleaner to read, indeed

**Modern flow** *(Talos >= 1.13)*:

1. Resolve the Kubernetes node name (if `--drain` is enabled, or if `--stage` with labels/taints)
2. Pre-pull the installer image via `ImageService.Pull`
3. Install the upgrade artifacts via `LifecycleService.Upgrade`
4. **If `--stage` is set**: apply labels/taints (if any) and stop here — the node is not rebooted
5. Cordon and drain the Kubernetes node if `--drain` is enabled. **If the drain fails** (e.g. a pod cannot be evicted within `--drain-timeout`), the upgrade aborts unless `--delete-if-eviction-fails` is set: in that case, the drain retries with pod deletion (DELETE instead of EVICT, bypassing PodDisruptionBudgets, reusing `--drain-timeout`). If the forced drain also fails, the node is left cordoned with the new artifacts installed but not rebooted, and no further nodes are upgraded. In-flight upgrades on other nodes (when `--max-parallel > 1`) are allowed to complete, but no new ones are started. The node must be uncordoned and rebooted manually to recover.
6. Issue a `Reboot` with the selected reboot mode (default: kexec)
7. Wait 30 seconds for the node to stabilize
8. Uncordon the Kubernetes node

**Legacy flow** *(Talos < 1.13)*:

> 1. Issue `MachineService.Upgrade`, which installs the upgrade artifacts, cordons and drains the node, and reboots — all in a single server-side sequence. `--drain` and `--drain-timeout` are ignored (Talos drains and uncordons the node itself); `--force` skips etcd health checks. `--stage` is not supported on legacy nodes.

Author: what actually happens if we use --stage on <1.13 talos? I think we should abort in such cases.

# Upgrade with a longer drain timeout (shared by graceful and fallback)
topf upgrade --delete-if-eviction-fails --drain-timeout=10m

# Stage an upgrade without rebooting (reboot manually later to complete it)
topf upgrade --stage

# Stage an upgrade and label the node so a controller can find it

> topf upgrade --stage --stage-label topf.io/staged-upgrade=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
topf upgrade --stage --stage-label topf.postfinance.ch/staged-upgrade=true
```

Consistency

# Upgrade with a longer drain timeout (shared by graceful and fallback)
topf upgrade --delete-if-eviction-fails --drain-timeout=10m

# Stage an upgrade without rebooting (reboot manually later to complete it)
topf upgrade --stage

# Stage an upgrade and label the node so a controller can find it
topf upgrade --stage --stage-label topf.io/staged-upgrade=true

# Stage an upgrade and taint the node to prevent new pods from scheduling

> topf upgrade --stage --stage-taint node-postfinance.ch/staged-upgrade=true:NoSchedule

Author: taint example: topf.postfinance.ch/staged-upgrade=true:PreferNoSchedule
